abacelar  embacelar
abaixar  acocorar
abalroada  colisão
abalroar  contender
abananado  apombocado
abanar  balouçar
abandonar  negar
abarregar-se  juntar-se
abatimento  quebrantamento
abeirante  rente
abelhudo  metido
aberta  abertão
aberto  aprofundado
abespinhado  sanhoso
abespinhável  anojadiço
abestalhado  atroado
abilolado  desabotinado
abiúdo  adiantado
abluente  detergente
abobadado  recurvado
abobalhado  apatetado
abodegar  enquizilar
abolorentar  mofar
abominoso  aborrecido
abonecar-se  ajaezar-se
aborrido  maçante
abracadabrante  mágico
abracável  abrangível
abranger-se  incluir-se
abrangência  encerramento
abreviado  encondensado
abrigado  amparado
abrigar  garantir
abrilhantado  adereçado
abrilhantar  avivar
absolver  escusar
absorver-se  empregar-se
abstruso  esconso
abugalhar-se  arregalar-se
acabado  encerrado
acabar  executar
acabrunhado  aniquilado
acairelar  cairelar
acalentar  bafejar
acariciador  amimador
acasmurrado  porfiado
acender  espicaçar
acerbidade  austeridade
aceso  arremessado
acessível  comunicativo
achambonado  achavascado
achatadura  amolgadura
aclimado  avezado
acobardado  atemorado
acontecimento  evento
acordar  concitar
acotovelar  esporar
acovar  cravar
acroase  dissertação
acurado  aprimorado
adamado  alfeninado
adelgaçar  engoiar-se
adensar  condensar
adereçado  aparamentado
adinamizar  desvigorizar
adiposidade  corpulência
adjudicar  concatenar
administrar  governar
admirado  banzado
admissão  aprovação
adocicado  melífluo
adomar  temperar
adstringir-se  restringir-se
adulterado  contrafeito
adulterar  extraviar
adversidade  contratempo
afadigado  afanado
afanar  ladroar
afanoso  fatigante
afastamento  apartada
afastar  retirar
afazer  avezar
afeiar  desguarnecer
aferrado  insistente
afetar  irritar
afetível  simpático
afiambrar  galanear
afiar  esmerilar
afilado  apuado
afincado  tenaz
aflar  inspirar
aflitivo  dilacerante
afluir  refluir
aforismal  aforístico
aformosear  embrincar
aformosentar  ajaezar
afouteza  coragem
afouto  teso
afrouxar  malear
afrouxar-se  entorpecer
agarrar  garrear
agastadiço  tomadiço
agastado  enraivecido
agastamento  arrelia
agenda  caderneta
agigantear  agravar
agitado  fremente
agitar  desassossegar
agoirar  profetizar
agradável  macio
agregar-se  consociar-se
agrestia  rudeza
aguilhoar  inflamar
agência  diligência
aiar  ulular
ainda  demais
alagado  arrasado
alambazado  lambaz
alanhar  ansiar
alar  guindar
alardear-se  gargantear
alarmar  ariscar
albergar  asilar
albergaria  poisada
alborcar  cambar
alcagüetar  dedo-durar
alcantilado  alcantiloso
alcançar  depreender
aldeia  póvoa
alegre  travesso
aleijar  jarretar
alentado  encorajado
alentoso  alto
alfaiado  engalanado
alfobre  alfofre
algazarra  babel
alhanado  igualado
alijar  cuspir
alojamento  instalação
aloucar  variar
alquebrado  debilitado
altaragem  voto
alterar  danar
alto  exímio
aluir  dirruir
alvear  dealvar
alúvio  inundação
amadurar-se  amadurecer-se
amarasmeado  letárgico
amarfanhar  torturar
ameigar  ceder
amenoso  suave
amenta  voz
amical  amistoso
amodorrar-se  imergir-se
amolar  massacrar
amolgar  prostrar
amontoar  conglobar
amorenado  bronzeado
amortecer-se  esmaecer
andar  operar
anegrado  negrusco
animoso  brioso
aniquilado  apeado
anojadiço  azougado
anojar  entediar
antagônico  contraditório
anteferir  preferir
antidemocrata  antidemocrático
antipático  contrário
antitético  oposto
anunciar  expedir
anátema  excomungação
anúncio  vaticínio
apagar  debotar
apaixonante  sedutor
apalermado  tolo
apancado  estólido
apandilhar-se  deslustrar-se
aparado  aposto
aparamentar  colorizar
aparatar  ornamentar
aparelho  utensílio
apascentar-se  folgazar
apavorar  espavorizar
apaziguamento  harmonia
apedrar  lapidar
apejar-se  oscilar
aperrar  insistir
apezinhar  desconsiderar
apeçonhentado  peçonhento
apisoar  suplantar
aplicar  empregar
apocalíptico  intrincado
apodrecer  desconsertar
apodrecido  decomposto
apoiar  laurear
apontar  extravasar
apoquentar  causticar
apoquentar-se  molestar-se
aporfiar  questionar
aprazado  procrastinado
aprazível  sonoro
aprestado  preste
aprisionar  pegar
aprofundar  desencovar
aprontar  vencer
aproximar-se  puxar
aprumar-se  perfilar-se
apunhalar  frechar
aquebrantar  infringir
aquecer  indignar
arcaboiçar  esboçar
ardejar  chamear
arenguear  rezingar
argentado  prateado
argúcia  transcendência
argüir  porfiar
aromalizar  balsamar
aromático  olorante
arranhão  raspão
arreado  empenado
arrear  vestir
arrear-se  fanfarronar
arrebatado  desembestado
arredado  derivado
arrelia  zanga
arreliar  encalmar
arrematar  inteirar
arremessar  propelir
arrependido  compungido
arrepiar-se  enchoiriçar-se
arribana  rancho
arrogância  inchação
arrojado  intérrito
arrombamento  depredação
arruaceiro  bagunceiro
artimanha  raposice
ascoroso  nauseabundo
aspecto  traço
aspergido  borrifado
assanhado  sanhoso
asselvajado  rude
assentamento  firmação
asserenar  calmar-se
assinar  traçar
assoberbante  fatigante
assombrar  assustar
assombrear  entrevar
assustador  terrível
assustar-se  espaventar-se
atabalhoamento  pipoco
atafulhado  espadongado
atarraxar  tarraxar
atender  ver
atinado  ponderado
atingir  fisgar
atiramento  remetida
ativo  laborioso
atiçar  espicaçar
atontear  azamboar
atopetar  lotar
atormentar  chicotar
atraiçoado  engazopado
atrativo  poesia
atristar  ofender
atropelar  enlabirintar
atroz  lacerante
atumultuar  desarrumar
augurar  conjecturar
aumentar-se  intensificar-se
auricomado  aurícomo
avançar  vingar
avizinhar-se  conchegar-se
azedia  pique
azoeirado  embaraçado
azoretar  estontecer
azul-do-céu  cérulo
açaimar  medir
açodamento  alvoroto
açodar  apicaçar
açoiteira  chicote
açouteira  rebenque
açucarar  dulcificar
babaca  babão
bacante  tíade
bafejar  encorajar
balanquear  pespontar
balcedoso  lameirento
baldio  improducente
baldrocar  tapear
balneário  terma
balroar  preliar
bambalhão  preguicento
bamboleante  gingante
banana  pateta
bandear-se  passar-se
banhar-se  lavar-se
banzar  remoer
baratar  desvalorizar
barracar  enrinconar
barrete  casquete
barulhoso  rumoroso
base  fundação
bastonada  bordoada
batalhar  militar
belo  suave
beneficiar  restabelecer
bengalada  sarrafada
benquistar  compor
berrante  clamador
berregar  expluir
bestar  vagar
bestial  desalmado
bimar  bímare
bolar  engenhar
borbotão  borbulhão
botar  embotar
bradar  esgoelar
bravatear  fumacear
brejo  sapal
brejoso  charqueiro
brilhante  fastoso
brilhantismo  majestade
burlequear  haraganar
burricada  parvoíce
cabeçudo  contumaz
caborje  salgação
cacerenga  caxirenguengue
cachamorrada  marretada
cachar  capear
cachaçudo  soberbo
cachorrada  cainça
cadaveroso  mortuoso
caixa-forte  cofre-forte
calafriento  calefriento
calar  mentir
calhorda  desprezível
calmante  sedativo
caluniar  desonestar
canhambola  quilombola
cansar  entibiar
cansaço  lassitude
capacidade  competência
capengante  carapé
captar  produzir
característica  particularidade
cariciar  cortejar
carneiro  ossuário
caronear  desvairar
carrancudo  sobrancelhudo
carregado  intenso
carteira  escrivaninha
cascar  descorticar
categoricamente  expressamente
cativante  sedutor
caído  gelado
ceder  diminuir
cediço  prosaico
cegar  embaciar
centelhar  vagalumear
cerebral  mental
cerrado  unido
cerrar-se  encangotar-se
certeza  segureza
certâmen  justa
cerzir  intervalar
chalacear  vasconcear
chamejar  esplendecer
charlar  tartarear
chateza  estopada
chavascada  preacada
chavasqueiro  rústico
chilreiro  dizedor
chocho  pacóvio
choroso  sentido
chutar  enjeitar
cineração  incineração
cingir  coagir
circular  mexer-se
cisão  corte
ciumoso  invejoso
claro  morto
clava  toco
cobrir  satisfazer
coligar-se  ligar-se
coligir  extrair
colorante  corante
colorear  sazonar
colorizar  decorar
columbino  virgem
coluna  pilar
comandar  conduzir
comer  nutrir-se
comido  nutrido
compadresco  compadrio
comparável  parecente
compilar  reunir
complicação  embaraço
compor  unir
comprobação  confirmação
compungir  entristecer
comunhão  união
comunicativo  expansivo
comunidade  irmandade
concepção  formulação
conchavo  mancomunagem
concitar  reprurir
concluir  deduzir
concordar  tratar
concutir  encasquetar
congestionar  entupir
conglobar  reunir
conhecimento  escola
consecutivamente  sucessivamente
consistente  pastoso
consolador  solaz
constante  freqüente
consternado  desolado
consternação  pesadume
consumir  dissipar
conta-giros  taquímetro
contaminar  infeccionar
contar  dizer
contestar  contrariar
contra-arrestar  empacar
contrariar  desgostar
contrastar  opor
contundido  pisado
conturbar  desacomodar
conubial  marital
coriscar  relampear
correr  enxotar
correto  probo
corrigir  ordenar
corromper  malignar
corrompido  corruptivo
corrugar-se  encorrilhar-se
coruscar  lustrar
coruscação  relâmpago
costume  uso
crescido  fermentado
criar  fornecer
cru  feroz
cuidadoso  cuidoso
curar  ocupar-se
cusparada  cuspinhada
câmbio  troca
cândido  melindroso
cópia  traslado
cômodo  tranqüilo
dar  engendrar
deaurar  doirar
debandar  estroçar
debulhado  escorchado
decaída  decaimento
decisão  determinação
declinar  sair
decretar  impor
definito  preciso
defumar  perfumar
degelar  desgelar
deitar  pôr
deixar  respeitar
delapidar  entornar
deleitar-se  satisfazer-se
deleite  prazimento
delgado  delicado
deliberado  resoluto
denegrecer  deslustrar
denotar  expressar
denunciar  revelar
depauperado  empobrecido
depender  originar-se
deportado  êxule
deposição  destronização
depreciar  desfavorecer
depreciação  maledicência
derrapar  patinar
derreigar  desraigar
desabotinado  estoirado
desabrido  desamorável
desabrigo  desagasalho
desacorçoado  desencorajado
desacreditar-se  difamar-se
desadorar  intoxicar
desadormentar  despertar
desafortunado  infortunado
desajeitar-se  perturbar-se
desalforjar  infundir
desalinhar  desaparelhar
desambicioso  desapegado
desamável  grosseiro
desaparecer  meter-se
desaparecer-se  perder-se
desapertar-se  soltar-se
desarborizar  desmoutar
desasseado  espurco
desassombrado  foito
desatender  empalidecer
desavergonhado  petulante
desbravar  domesticar
descantar  entoar
descapacitar-se  desimaginar-se
descarregar  desquitar
descombinar  inimistar
desconcertar  desestruturar
descreditar  exautorar
descurar  desleixar
desembutir  desmontar
desembuçar  respirar
desempachar  livrar
desencarrilhar  desmandar-se
desencontrar  dissentir
desengatilhar  transfazer
desenlambuzar  mundificar
desenxabimento  mornidão
desesperante  desesperativo
desfalcar  diminuir
desfazer  rescindir
desfechar  finalizar
desfeita  inconsideração
desfiar  esgarçar
desflorado  esflorado
desflorescimento  fenecimento
desfortalecer  desvigorar
desfruir  gostar
desgarrar  empestear
desgovernado  estragador
desgovernar  viciar
desgrenhar  enredar
desidratar  ressecar
desligar-se  separar-se
deslisar  turibular
deslustrar  embaciar
desmaecer  esmaiar
desmanchar  esfacelar
desmelhorar  minar
desmembramento  destroncamento
desmemoriado  esquecido
desmemoriamento  esquecimento
desmentir  diferir
desmiuçar  estriçar
desmobilhado  desmobiliado
desmodorrar  excitar
desobstrução  desobstruência
desocupar  vaziar
desonestar  infamar
desperdiçado  extravagante
desperdiçante  esperdiçante
desprestígio  queda
desprezável  reles
dessoterrar  revelar
desterro  solidão
destilar  transcoar
destinar  empregar
destoante  malsoante
desumano  subumano
desvalidar  revogar
desvanecer  varrer
desvanecer-se  garguitear
desvergonha  impudência
desvirtuar-se  perder-se
deter-se  plantar-se
determinado  feito
devaneio  faz-de-conta
devassar  esmiuçar
devolutivo  devolutório
devorar  dilapidar
devoção  entrega
dificultar  fechar
difícil  fatigoso
dignidade  gravidade
dilapidador  prodigalizador
dilapidar  esfrangalhar
diligenciar  intentar
diluir  moderar
discernir  medir
discorrer  especular
dissimulado  indireto
dissolvência  liqüidificação
distinguido  divisado
divagar  flanar
dividir  ratear
dizedor  tagarela
doca  zerê
donaire  ornato
dormideira  modorra
drogomano  turgimão
duvidoso  irresoluto
dúlcido  fagueiro
efeituar-se  realizar-se
elanguescer  prostrar
eletrizar  esporar
elucidar  explicar
emascarar  sufocar
embalador  ilusivo
embalançar  menear
embasbacado  surpreso
embate  oposição
embatumar  preencher
embonecrar  pendoar
embrenhar-se  fundir-se
embriaguez  inebriamento
embrulhar  ludibriar
embuchar-se  locupletar-se
embuste  embustice
embuçalar  trautear
emotividade  sensibilidade
empapar  engrampar
empavonar-se  estadear-se
empavonear-se  envaidecer-se
emperrar  estomagar
empeçonhar  prevaricar
emporcalhar-se  enodoar-se
empreendimento  firma
emproar-se  entufar-se
empurpurar  vermelhecer
enaltar  levantar
encabrestar  submeter
encabular  perseguir
encanudado  encanutado
encapar  entroixar
encarquilhado  esmarrido
encasamento  engrenamento
encher  enquizilar
enchoiriçar  flagelar
encoberto  nuvioso
encoimar  increpar
encostar  zurzir
encrespar  espetar
encruar-se  excitar-se
encurvar-se  prostrar-se
endeusar-se  enfunar-se
endoidecer  endoudar
endurecimento  pertinácia
enegrecido  manchado
enfarar-se  enjoar-se
enfatuamento  entufamento
enfreamento  frenamento
enfrear  modicar
enfurecer  exasperar
enfuriar  exaltar
engolir  rebater
engrampar  enloisar
engraxador  engraxate
engrolado  tapeado
enlaçar  estreitar
enlear  enredar
enlear-se  enredear-se
enleio  envolvimento
entenebrecer  sombrear
entoar  soar
entranqueirar  fortificar
entrecruzar-se  travar-se
entrever-se  vislumbrar
entufar  inturgescer
enunciar  mencionar
envaidecer-se  intumescer-se
envencilhado  implexo
envinagrar-se  reprurir-se
enzonzar  estontear
equânimo  justo
eremita  ermita
errabundo  vagamundo
erro  falha
esbarrar  refugar
escabritar-se  estomagar-se
escandescer  pruir
escolher  seletar
escorregar  falhar
escusar-se  ressalvar-se
escárnio  ludíbrio
esfazer  gastar
esfriamento  resfriamento
esgoelamento  gritadeira
esmerilhar  limar
espalhafato  vozearia
espalhar  juncar
espanar  espoar
esperado  provável
esperdiçar  prodigalizar
esperteza  subtilidade
espetar  traspassar
espicaçar  magoar
espinho  ferrão
espinicado  janota
espiráculo  resfolegadoiro
esplendecer  flamejar
esplender  resplender
esporada  ferroada
espremer  estringir
estabilidade  firmeza
estafa  exaustão
estarrecer  fulminar
estendal  varal
esticar  inteiriçar
estimular  impelir
estradear  mandar
estreitar  minuir
estroinar  patuscar
estudar  habilitar-se
estufa  fogão
estuoso  febricitante
estuporar  perder
estuporar-se  imobilizar-se
esvaecer  expungir
evidenciar-se  patentizar-se
exagitar  marfar
exalar  externar-se
examinar  perscrutar
excedente  sobra
excelência  magnificência
excepcionalmente  extraordinariamente
execrável  trasvisto
exercitar  trenar
exoneração  isenção
exploração  parasitismo
exsuar  transudar
exterminar  mandar
extra-sensível  ultra-sensível
extraordinário  invulgar
extravaganciar  malbaratar
extravagante  incrível
extravasar  redundar
fabuloso  quimérico
facetar  refinar
facultoso  opulento
faina  lide
falatório  rumor
falência  falimento
fanado  torrado
farfante  vaniloqüente
favorecer  sorrir
fementido  frustratório
ferretoar  increpar
fiel  sectário
finalidade  papel
fincar  meter
firme  segurado
firmeza  seguridade
fiscalizar  patrulhar
fixar  mandar
flagelação  martirização
flutuador  salva-vidas
foguear  ruborizar
folgador  galhofento
fornir  munir
fortalecer-se  renovar-se
forte  musculoso
fortificar-se  oxigenar-se
fortificação  praça
fragrante  odorífico
fraudar  tolher
friento  friorento
fulgor  rutilação
fumarar  vaporar
fundar-se  jogar
fuzilar  luziluzir
fé  religiosidade
fúlgido  resplendoroso
fúnebre  funeral
fúsil  fusível
gabela  gavela
gadelhudo  guedelhudo
galardoar  pagar
galear  janotar
garotar  vagamundear
garrir  papear
garrulante  palavreador
gastador  perdulário
gastar-se  ir-se
gatear  rapinhar
gatimonha  micagem
gebo  mal-apresentado
genetriz  genitora
germinar  levantar
glorificar-se  jactar-se
glutinoso  peguenhento
governar  tronejar
graduação  graduamento
gralhar  palavrear
grande  profundo
gretar  rachar
guarda-louça  louceira
gulodice  lambiscaria
haraganar  preguiçar
harpagão  sovina
hierático  religioso
hipócrita  refalsado
homogeneizar  uniformizar
hora  tempo
horda  tropel
horripilante  temerso
horroroso  tétrico
humilhante  vexante
hástea  vergôntea
idiotismo  zotismo
idéia  mente
ignavo  manzanza
iludir  velhaquear
impedimento  obstáculo
imperecedor  perene
imperfeição  senão
impersistente  inconstante
importunar  molestar
importuno  inadequado
impregnar  induzir
imprimir  tipografar
improvidente  negligente
incendiar-se  referver-se
inclinar  pender
incoerência  incongruidade
incólume  intacto
individualmente  singularmente
individuar  privilegiar
indolente  omisso
infecionar  pestiferar
infesto  ruinoso
infindo  infinito
inibir  negar
injúria  opróbrio
inopinado  subitâneo
insignificante  inútil
instantâneo  momentâneo
insuperável  invencível
intensificar  recrescer
intermear  intermediar
interpretar  ter
intertecer  obrar
intricar  intrincar
intriga  invenção
investigar  perquirir
investir  lançar-se
inçar  invadir
iracundo  zangado
irritadiço  violento
jactante  loroteiro
jovem  mancebo
lamaceira  lameiro
lameiroso  lutulento
languescer  prostrar
lançar  projetar
lapidificação  petrificação
lasca  talisca
latir  vociferar
legisperito  legista
lembrar-se  relembrar-se
lentescente  pegajento
lesto  presto
liberdade  permissão
licencioso  obsceno
limitado  restringido
limpar  rastelar
lisonjear-se  repastar-se
lixento  porco
louco  tresloucado
ludibriar  pantomimar
luxurioso  obsceno
luzir  prefulgir
maciar  mitigar
malcontente  triste
maligno  nóxio
manha  savoir-faire
mantimento  retenção
marginal  ripícola
mariposar  mariposear
marroada  porretada
masticatório  mastigatório
matagal  selva
mazanza  zopeiro
maçador  paulificante
melhorar  serenar
migalha  migalho
milenar  milenário
miserável  sovina
modelo  tipo
modicar  sopitar
moiro  mourisco
molecada  pirralhada
morder  zavar
mundificar  purgar
nauseante  nauseoso
negociado  permutado
nitente  resplendente
noitada  noutada
novato  novo
nugativo  vão
nuvem  sombra
obcecação  paixão
objetivo  objeto
obsediar  rascar
organização  sociedade
pacato  tranqüilo
palatal  palatinal
palmar  roubar
pandilha  pandilheiro
paniguado  protegido
pantear  zombar
parasitação  parasitismo
pardieiro  tapera
passadio  vivenda
patetear  pejar-se
patifaria  velhacaria
patrono  protetor
pautar  recensear
pegadiço  tenaz
pejado  vergonhoso
penhorar  seqüestrar
penitência  tortura
pequeno  pequerrucho
pername  pernão
perseverar  persistir
persigal  presepe
persistir  ter-se
petrechar-se  premunir-se
pilhar  saquear
pitônico  vatídico
pleito  sabatina
poder  suportar
poetificar  versar
porte  vivenda
precatadamente  prevenidamente
pregar  tracionar
prescrição  provisão
pressuposto  pretexto
pretender  visar
progressão  progresso
prorrogar-se  protrair-se
proteger-se  velar-se
provimento  tento
pugnador  pugnaz
pundonoroso  reto
puxar  tender
queimar  requeimar
quietude  suavidade
quitar-se  separar-se
rabeira  viso
rabo  rasto
ranger  rechinar
rasar  rasoirar
rateio  repartição
reabastecimento  refornecimento
rebentar  vir
rebrilhante  resplandente
recondicionar  reparar
redutivo  redutor
refrear-se  vencer-se
reger  regular
registar  titular
regougar  rosnar
regularidade  uniformidade
relembrar  revivescer
remover  transferir
repetir  voltar
reportar-se  temperar-se
ressaído  ressaltado
ressequido  torrado
ressoar  rimbombar
restabelecimento  restauro
restrugir  zonzear
retirar-se  vazar
retransir  transpassar
rever-se  ver-se
rigidez  severidade
rinha  rixa
roldão  sarrabulhada
roubar  sonegar
rumor  runrum
sacerdote  tonsurado
sacudida  tremor
safar  sobnegar
sandio  tolo
sapateado  sapateio
selvagem  silvícola
semi-aberto  semicerrado
septuagenário  setuagenário
seqüência  transcorrência
sibilar  tinir
silencioso  taciturno
sinopse  súmula
sobreabundar  superabundar
sobreexcedido  ultrapassado
socalcar  suplantar
solução  terminação
sovinice  tacanhice
subtilidade  talento
sucedimento  sucesso
sugerir  suscitar
suspensão  transporte
teste  verificação
transferir  transpassar
transgredir  travessar
traça  traçado
vaivém  volta
verdejante  verdoso
versejar  versificar
vário  volátil
zabumbar  zupar
âmago  bojo